(clicking)
- Hello everyone out there.
Thank you so much for joining us on the live stream
of this Talk Python To Me podcast recording.
So excited to be here with Peter.
We're going to kick off the show in just a second,
but I do wanna let you know,
if you have questions, comments, thoughts,
put them into the chat here in YouTube
and we'll try to make them part of the show.
With that, thanks for being here.
And Peter, welcome to Talk Python To Me.
- Yeah, thanks for having me.
Great to be here.
- Hey, it's really great to have you here as well.
It's been far too long since we've talked containers
and Docker and all the things.
I was looking back at something like show nine
or something like that.
It was, I believe 2015.
Has anything changed with Docker since 2015?
- Shame on you.
- I suspect something has.
I know, I know.
I suspect something has.
It's gotta be.
- Yeah, there's been a, it's,
yeah, containers are interesting.
They're moving very fast, right?
Very fast.
On just about all fronts,
I think the whole developer, DevOps, DevSecOps,
just have embraced it the past five years.
- Yeah, I was thinking what you might respond to
from that question.
And to me, it seems like not so much
how containers work and run,
but just how people have embraced them
and how many places they show up
and how many people are saying,
"Hey, hey, we have a cluster.
You just run your thing over here.
Just give us your container
and we'll help you run it
as part of our platform as a service,"
or whatever it is they're cloud hosting.
Yeah.
- Yeah, it's very interesting.
And then there's all these little micro,
maybe micro is not the correct term,
but all these, a lot of SaaS and startups
and trying to help,
and containers are at the core of a lot of that.
If you get into the container, we can run it.
And yeah, some really interesting SaaS
as they're starting up,
little niche platforms as a service type things.
Yeah, 100%.
- Yeah, absolutely.
It's super interesting.
Before we dive too deep into that though,
let's get started with your story.
How'd you get into programming?
- Yeah, so as a kid,
my dad's an accountant,
but a nerd at heart,
a techie, let's say.
And he started out, this is interesting,
at least to me,
he started out with calculators before,
PCs were a big thing.
He had calculators,
he'd be programming these calculators and stuff.
And anyways, long story short,
he ended up getting,
I think it was Apple II
was the first kind of computer we had.
And I was fascinated by it,
started programming on it,
just learning, messing around.
Fast forward after high school,
I was in the Coast Guard
and had gotten out and was going back to school.
And I started back as an accountant.
My dad said, "Hey, accounting is a good foundation,
you like math and science and those types of things."
And I hated it,
hated it, the debits and credits,
and I was just like micro macro.
Now it's a lot more interesting.
Back then I couldn't stand it,
but then I lucked out.
My father was running two steel companies
and he had a consulting team
that was writing software for him,
very exciting stuff,
like inventory management,
working process tracking.
- Not exciting, but it's the kind of stuff that
if you looked at what people were doing before,
it was dreadful, right?
It's like transformative,
even though it seems so boring and basic.
- Yeah, yeah.
And he said, "Why don't you come work for me?"
And this consulting firm,
the main, the owner had some life issues or whatever
and had to move on.
And I said, "Well, I don't know what I'm doing."
He said, "Oh, you'll figure it out.
There's a big Barnes and Noble
at the top of the hill there, you can-"
- Got a whole section on it, just go read.
- Literally, yeah.
And I did, and I did.
And it was, I had a passion,
I had a burning desire, right, to learn.
It was fascinating to me.
Yeah, and so I switched over to computer science degree,
MIS, and, but by the time I got farther along in that,
I was getting paid to program
and I was learning a ton more on the job.
So that kind of-
- Remember your first experience of getting paid
to write code, was it just like,
I can't believe they're actually paying me to do this.
- Absolutely, absolutely.
It was, yeah, I mean, it's literally how they say,
find something you love and are passionate in
and the money will come.
And yeah, it did, it certainly did.
I was, I really enjoyed it.
And yeah, I was getting paid to learn and write applications.
So yeah, it was awesome.
It was awesome.
- Yeah, it's fantastic.
I remember my first experience like that as well.
I'm like, I had better figure this out
before they realize I can't actually do this.
Yeah, I could do the things they wanted,
but I'm like, oh, any moment, they're just gonna say,
no, we actually don't get to do this anymore.
- Yeah.
- But it was great.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
And then I went, by that time I said,
I have to get on a bigger team and learn.
I know I got to the point where, okay, I can write programs,
but I don't know how to be an engineer.
- Yeah.
- And I'm not sure I could put it in those type of words,
but luckily after that I got on a team
and had some great mentors.
So yeah, that's how I kinda got started.
- Yeah, fantastic.
I think that's good advice.
You know, it's really cool to be on small teams
because you really get to put your hand
in so many areas you're not pigeonholed into.
Well, I'm the one who optimizes stored procedures,
so I do that.
- Right, you get like a really broad experience,
but at some point when it's like,
there's no one I can talk to or learn from
to go farther in this,
then it gets to be a little bit limiting, I think.
- Yeah, exactly.
I'm like, well, that's how it got for me.
I was like, I don't know where to go next
and I don't know who, you know,
I didn't have anybody there with me.
Yeah, I think having a mentor either,
either well-structured or kinda loosely structured
or whether you look back on it five years and go,
oh, that person was kind of a mentor for me
is very powerful, right?
It's very powerful.
- Yeah, absolutely.
It totally is.
I remember making that transition
to a really great group of people who were,
every one of them I felt like was way smarter than me
and it was intimidating,
but absolutely was a good outcome.
- Yeah, that's the place to be, right?
- Yeah.
- Unless, you know, of course,
I think a lot of us too in tech
deal with ego issues sometimes.
I know I did, right?
Like, hey, I'm pretty smart.
I know what I'm doing.
And when you're young and ambitious, right?
And you run into other really smart people
that like are smart and you go,
okay, I'm not that smart.
Yeah, it's a little humbling, but-
- It can be humbling.
- Yeah.
- Those are probably good life lessons,
but they're hard to take when you're young, I remember.
- Yeah, absolutely, yeah.
- Fantastic.
So how about now?
What are you doing day to day?
- Yeah, so I head up the developer relations team at Docker
and I get to do what I love.
You know, I still get to play around with tech
and learn new things and build stuff,
but then I also get to transfer that knowledge to others
or at least try.
So teaching and mentoring is what I do mostly day to day,
write content and workshops and those types of things.
Yeah, so, and I help folks learn to use containers
in Docker to help build applications, right?
So yeah, it's fantastic.
I love my job, truly do.
- I can imagine.
You know, I really have thought for a long time
that this developer evangelist sort of role,
it just seems so neat
because you get to work with a bunch of people,
you're not really there
just closing boring JIRA tickets every day, right?
You get to just work at like the fun level of software
and really interact with a lot of different people.
You get to go to conferences, maybe be on a podcast,
all those kinds of things.
It's a really cool space to be after you've learned enough
in the industry to play that role.
- Yeah, a hundred percent.
I remember seeing, I had thought about the role before,
but I think it was at Google's, what is it?
Google Next, I think it's their conference.
But yeah, and that was when I kind of,
I had known about Dev Advocates and DevRel,
but when I saw a couple of speakers, I was like,
"Oh wait, Dev Advocates, oh, they get paid to do this.
This isn't just, you know,
Peter who's a software engineer then speaks, right?
This is their job."
And I was like, "Oh, that's pretty interesting."
Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, you gotta have the right personality for it,
but I think it's really fantastic.
I did actually a whole episode, episode 189 on this role.
And I had four or five people
who were at different companies doing this.
So yeah, it's really, really neat.
So let's, you know, I do wanna catch up on what is new
in Docker and containers and that whole space,
but there are a lot of people
with lots of different backgrounds.
Let's, you know, listen to the show who,
I'm sure everyone's heard of Docker and containers, right?
It's like hearing of Linux or something,
but that doesn't mean you're super familiar with it
or you really understand the advantages
or maybe the history.
So let's actually maybe start with just like the history
of containers a little bit.
I know when I first saw the talk by the original,
I think it was the original CEO of Docker,
gave a really interesting sort of tie back
to shipping containers.
- Yeah, yeah.
- So what's this whole idea of containers?
Where's it come from?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So yeah, Solomon Hikes when-
- Yeah, that was him.
- Yeah, when I first saw his,
I think it was at a Pi conference,
now that I think about it, actually in Europe.
Yeah, he gave a quick brief kind of like,
you know, what do you call lightning talk, right?
And it kind of went over at the end
and people like went kind of crazy.
And I remember kind of seeing it and I was like,
and if you ever go watch it,
I recommend people go watch it
and kind of look for the aha moment,
at least it took me a bit, right?
And you know, he did ran these commands
and then, oh yeah,
and then there's this process running inside of a container
and super easy and I forget what he demoed,
but it took me a while, right?
To be honest, right?
I step back and I was like, well, okay,
we have VMs, what is this container thing?
And it took me a little bit to figure out like,
oh, wow, this is super powerful.
But you know, containers,
the constructs to build containers
have been around for a while since the 70s, right?
And been in Unix, different Unix flavors
with change root and those types of things.
And then I think around 2000, I believe,
was when Vserve came out
and then about eight years.
So you had Linux Vserve and FreeBSD had some,
you know, container like functionalities
to isolate processes into those types of things.
So Vserve was kind of like a virtual, you know,
sitting on top of the core kernel
and having some virtualization there.
I'll put virtual--
- When I first heard about Docker,
I thought, oh, this is this amazing new thing.
And then as I researched it more,
I'm like, actually the pieces had always,
not always, but they had been there for a while.
Like these pieces you're talking about,
they just hadn't really been
sort of put into a nice little package
the way Docker has, right?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I think that's the beauty of what Docker did
and Solomon and his team, right?
There was, I think there was three founders,
but yeah, it was 2013, there it is on the screen.
Yeah, so 2013, Docker kind of took off, right?
It kind of exploded and it was just that.
You know, they simplified containers,
these constructs were all there, but they made it easy.
They made it, the ability to deep, you know,
drop back down in into the details
or stay very high level and use, you know,
Docker run, Docker push, you know,
those Docker build, right?
Those three main commands were super powerful.
And I think that was the beauty of Docker.
They just made it easier for the average developer or,
you know, for if you had to be a Linux kernel developer
to kind of really understand containers before that.
- Yeah. - They simplified, yeah.
- Linux admin or something like that, right?
- Yeah, yeah, a hundred percent.
And it's kind of like,
I think Microsoft did a great job at this.
I think Apple has done a great job at this.
You know, Microsoft with, you know, VB, right?
And I'm going to get beat up on the internets
for this Visual Basic.
But Visual Basic 6, I mean, kind of weird,
but it was a game changer, right?
You had C++, MFC, you know,
writing these C++ to write desktop apps
and business apps, right?
And VB 6 came along and said, "Oh no, no, it's, you know,
if you need a text box and some labels and a button,
just drag it on there, right?"
- Look, I won't beat you up for that.
VB was transformative.
It was magical.
The problem with VB was you could go so far
and then you're like, "Well, VB doesn't do that."
So now you get a grownup.
Now it's time to put your big boy pants on
and get a grownup language and suffer the, you know,
C++ huge gap.
But for what a lot of people built with that,
it was incredibly, to be honest,
there's nothing like that today that I can think of
that is so powerful for building
a little distributable application I can give to you.
Electron feels super complicated and hard.
Python, you can build stuff, but it's always kind of like,
but this is a challenge or that, you know,
even the Windows stuff with WPF is,
it's way more complicated than, like, it was magic, right?
It's just, it's too bad that there's not sort of
a semi-modern version of something that simple for people.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And if, who knows if Visual Basic had curly braces,
we might have a different story.
- Yeah. - I mean, like,
like truly, right?
I mean, I remember having debates with,
yeah, what's not a real language?
It's, you know, it's basic.
It's the basic programming language, right?
But yeah. - Yeah, yeah.
And John Sheehan out there in the live stream says,
"Rad concepts seem to be coming back
"as these low-code, no-code platforms."
That's a really interesting tie in there.
I do agree with that.
I think that they've gone even lower than,
or simpler than what Visual Basic was,
to like really, really simple.
So yeah, I'm not sure it's exactly equivalent,
but it's definitely, you're right.
Those things are definitely coming back.
- Yeah, I think we were real complicated.
Now we're going real, too simple time, right?
- The pendulum swings hard, doesn't it?
- Yeah, I think we'll find it.
I do believe though, with technology, right,
abstractions get higher and higher.
And well, this will kind of roll in a little bit
into where the container history went next.
And, you know, to 2017, '18-ish,
Kubernetes kind of dominated the orchestration, right?
And still does, but it is, you know,
I was gonna say horribly complex,
and maybe it is, maybe I'll get beat up for that too,
but it is extremely complex, right?
Extremely complex.
And I think-
- And we're mostly talking about like running
a Kubernetes cluster is complex,
not necessarily like somebody's already set up for you
and you give them a definition and say, "Run that."
Like that part might not be so hard,
but like if you're gonna do the whole stack, right?
- Yeah, the whole stack from the ground up, right?
Yeah, it's a bunch of moving parts,
getting installed, getting everything working together.
Security, networking, yeah, it's not simple, right?
It's not simple at all.
But yeah, I think it'll get easier and easier and easier
and orchestrated run times.
You know, I see a lot in tech,
like the App Engine from Google with Python, right?
Well, basically serverless now,
but when it first came out, you're like,
"What, you're gonna run my whole app?
No, no, no, no, no, I need to control all that."
So we did away with it, but now we're coming back,
you know, serverless, we're kind of coming back to it.
Same with Kubernetes, right?
Oh, your ECS and ACI on, you know,
"Hey, give me a container, I'll just run it and manage it."
You know, we said, "No, no, no, no,
I need to control all that."
And then you get this massive Kubernetes
and now I think we're going back, right?
"Yeah, I just wanna give you my containers
and run them for me, right?
I don't have time to deal with all this."
And Google announces autopilot
and those types of things, right?
So I think that's the way we're gonna go.
And I think Docker as a company,
about a year ago when we sold off the enterprise,
a little over a year ago, sold the enterprise business off,
got off kind of package software, enterprise software,
moved more to SaaS, back to the web.
- Yeah, well, let's dig into that for a minute
because I remember seeing Docker coming along
and it was like, "Oh, this is a really cool,
really cool dev tool,
but how are they gonna make any money out of this?"
And I feel like the first big step was,
"Well, what we're gonna do
is we're gonna have special offerings for enterprises
and help them tame their zillions
of different types of software they need to run."
- Right.
- It sounds like that that's not the case anymore.
What's that transition?
What's happened with Docker around that?
- Yeah, I think first the business model was,
we shifted to an enterprise business model.
Prior to that, Docker was just exploding, right?
And building tools and every DockerCon,
there was a new release and a new tool
and a lot of them would fizzle out and stuff like that.
And the people with the purse strings,
the money said, "Hey, hey, hold on, this is great.
You're doing some wonderful things,
but we want our money back eventually.
So can you go sell something?"
And they probably, Open Source and Cumbia, we all love it,
but we're investors, where's our 10X?
Yeah.
And yeah, so we shifted a little bit to enterprise
and it was just an old business model, I think,
on-prem, long licenses, three-year licenses,
at least a year, if not three years,
and then consulting on top of that.
So paying a couple of hundred thousand dollars
for the software and then twice that for consulting services.
It was just a model that's a little bit outdated
and it's still there, of course,
but Salesforce was really the first
that kind of was starting to drive the nail
into the coffin, so to speak, right?
- Well, it seems to me where a lot of those stories
are moving are, are you moving to Azure?
Are you moving to AWS?
Are you moving to Linode?
Like where, instead of trying to solidify
and really modernize the data center inside companies,
a lot of them are going,
how can we just get out of the data center business?
In which case, that's a totally different story, right?
In terms of like how they work with you guys.
- Yeah, yeah, and we tried,
we did have an advantage, you know, cross-cloud.
So, you know, one single pane of glass
for all your containers across clouds, internal, external,
but it was just, it was a day late
and a dollar short with funding
when we kind of tried to do that.
And yeah, so sold off the enterprise business
and focused back on what Docker does really well,
build development tools, development experiences,
making container development first, you know,
really easy, right?
And that's kind of what we're focused on.
We call it shift left, right?
Focusing back on the developer.
We're still very interested in ops and DevOps
and DevSecOps, but more from a developer's perspective
and not that day two long-term
running your production environments and stuff.
And so we got small again, got focused again.
You know, we have something like 10 million developers
or 10 million desktop installs, you know,
billions of images being pulled out of hub
and kind of looked at it and said,
"Hey, there's a business here, right?"
Just official images on hub is a huge, huge asset for us,
right?
You know, with Python and packages
and all the languages and runtimes, right?
To get really good high quality scanned packages is hard,
right?
And hub does that.
So you know where you're getting your Mongo database from,
who's produced it, Docker kind of puts their stamp on it.
- Okay, so you guys have like officially verified,
certified, either direct images or Docker files
that build the images out there?
- Yeah, yeah.
So we have official images, which we kind of say,
"Hey, this is following best practices.
"This is, you know, been scanned
"for security vulnerabilities."
That doesn't mean there's not security vulnerabilities
in there if anybody works in the security space, right?
That's like impossible, but yeah.
- Lowers your attack surface.
- This is the, we're recording this the week
that we're basically hearing, you know,
60,000 direct companies have been compromised
by the Microsoft Exchange vulnerability.
And then they're probably providing products to others,
right?
Like it's tough.
- Yeah, yeah, it is.
Yeah, and-
- But at the same time, there's also a lot of news
around supply chain vulnerability.
And the SolarWinds thing was a supply chain vulnerability.
I don't believe the, I don't know,
but I don't believe the Exchange one was.
But, you know, Docker is certainly part
of that supply chain, either strengthening
or weakness there, right?
Like we hear about how PyPI and NPM and RubyGems
and all of those have people have been, you know,
putting renewed interest in trying to get bad things
in there.
I always have the same thought about Docker.
If I just grab an arbitrary Docker file off the internet,
because, oh, look, this configures the thing that I need.
And I Docker build, Docker run.
Well, it might be configuring it with extra goodies
for someone else right in there, right?
And so that sounds like a really good thing
to at least have, you know, verified to the degree
that you guys can.
- Yeah, yeah.
And it's bringing, you know,
you used to be with security, right?
It's, I remember sitting at a large
computer manufacturing company here in Central Austin,
Central Texas, I won't mention their name,
but, you know, we're getting, oh, nice, thank you.
Yeah, so we're, you know, launching a big release
and we're all sitting in the go, no go meeting.
And it's, you know, a couple of days before release.
And of course, then that's when the security team
walks in, right?
And oh, you know, like literally like dropping down,
hey, you didn't fill out your TPS reports.
- Yeah, exactly.
- You know, and-
- Well, that's such the wrong time to do it
because, you know, a lot of those ideas
have to be built in early.
You gotta, yeah, it's really tricky to layer that on
at the very, very end.
- 100%.
And now with containers, developers are a lot more,
are closer to the operating system and worrying about it.
You know, before you had your VM and you had, you know,
you had ops folks taking care of it,
mapping them, keeping-
- Here's my code.
It's gonna need Nginx and micro-WSGI.
You figure that out, go.
- Right, yeah.
Now we're throwing it in containers
and devs are doing a lot of that.
So shifting that security even farther left
to, hey, scan your images,
make, you should know what's going in your images.
You know, what base images you're using,
those types of things are super important.
Yeah.
- Yeah, okay.
- And controlling that whole life, like you said,
that whole life cycle, right,
of when you're building your images and how,
through CI/CD, right?
Doing the consistency, consistently,
making sure you're doing scans, right?
So you can protect that whole pipeline.
100%.
- Yeah, we definitely need to be thinking about that
as an industry.
It's serious.
- Yeah.
Yeah, and it's, yeah.
There's so many smart people out there and they move fast.
They move really fast.
And keeping up with the hackers is hard.
(laughing)
- That's for sure.
That's for sure.
So one of the things I thought it might be fun to touch on
is just some of the areas that containers are useful,
maybe some of their benefits,
things like that, right?
I think there's a lot of different use cases that are not,
well, it makes DevOps more consistent with development,
even though that may be one of the benefits.
- Yeah.
Yeah, I think the biggest problem that Docker solves
is that packaging.
It runs on my machine, right?
And that's been part of our marketing since the beginning.
It works for me.
- Right.
- There's a fantastic thing that people should Google.
Maybe if I can find it.
I've put it on the show before,
but there's a thing called,
it works on my machine certification.
(laughing)
You can get the official certification.
This is done by Jeff Atwood and some folks.
- Oh, that's great.
- And another guy over there.
And so you get this big banner,
it says it works on my machine.
And the way you get it is you compile your code
and getting the latest from any version control,
getting the recent from that is totally optional
and up to you.
You launch the application that has been compiled.
You cause at least one code path
that needs to be checked to be executed.
The preferred way to do this is ad hoc manual testing.
You may omit this step
if the code change was less than five lines
or in the developer's professional opinion,
it couldn't possibly result there.
And then you check it in the source control, right?
And so, yeah, I mean, that's a joke.
And the reason I bring it up is,
oh, it's just so common in the industry
that you run into this problem, right?
That, well, we tested over here
and under this environment, it works fine,
but in a different environment, it doesn't.
And we try to backfill that with things like CI/CD
and whatnot, but it's still, it's not a perfect fit.
So with Docker, you can get much closer
to running on exactly the same system.
- Yeah, yeah, the idea is not only package your app,
but package the operating system,
all of its dependencies, your app, its configuration,
all the application dependencies,
all in one package, right, into an image.
And then pass, share that around, right?
Makes it so much easier.
Yeah, at my, that large computer manufacturer, right?
We had two huge data centers.
And I talk about this in my getting started video,
50 in each center, just for the browse layer and dub, dub, dub.
And if you go through and patching those machines,
those 50, and you miss one,
and of course we had scripts and all that,
but you still had to manually,
list of what servers are in and out of the data center,
who's in DNS, who's not, right?
You missed one, and then you get this,
these random errors where I hit three good servers,
the fourth one breaks, and then you hit F5
and you go back to server two and you're fine, right?
- Yeah, that's really tricky when it's going to,
could be round robin type of balancing.
And you're like, well, sometimes it's wrong,
but I don't know when.
- Right, right.
So we used to just go and restart all the servers,
one by one, some of the troubleshooting,
yeah, 'cause some of the troubleshooting you get into
is like, we have no idea.
Yeah, so I think Docker really,
really attacks that really well.
But then when you, looking at developers,
what I'm really excited is,
moving into microservices and kind of more modern
cloud first kind of development, right?
Again, getting everything running on your machine,
10, 15, 100 microservices that you're not gonna use,
you're not gonna touch, you don't work on,
but they need to be there.
So, you have this mesh of microservices
or even just three or four of them, right?
That work together.
You have to have your sign on,
your single sign on, blah, blah, blah, all these things.
And getting databases and queuing
and everything running locally is hard, right?
If I got to install Mongo and SQL server locally,
and then maybe projects are using
two different versions, right?
So now if everything's in containers,
and then if you're using Compose,
which I'll use orchestration loosely here,
but it orchestrates your containers locally.
- Right, because Docker's all well and simple and easy
when the goal is I need to fire up this Docker container
and I put the thing I wanna run at the end.
I say, Docker run container something.
But if I wanna run multiple things
and they've got to discover each other on the network,
they've got to have DNS names
and this one has to start before that one.
And all of a sudden, it's a whole another level
of manual challenges to do that by hand.
So Docker Compose is basically a way to write a file
that takes a bunch of Docker containers
and starts them the right way
with the right ports and everything, yeah?
- Exactly, exactly.
Why it gives you kind of built in discoverability.
So DNS, you can easily plug in volumes
and share volumes across your containers.
Yeah, super powerful.
And it's also a way to, like you said,
you can bring out all these Docker run commands
and then your run command is huge.
You could put that all into a Compose file
and then-- - Conversion control.
- Conversion control. - Things like that, yeah.
- Yeah, and then once I, yeah, exactly, Michael.
I could set up and then setting up a new dev,
hey, pull latest from GitHub and Docker Compose up
and brings your application up.
- Yeah, so I've got a couple of ideas here
that I thought might be fun to bounce off you.
And the very first one on the list
is onboarding new developers.
- Yeah. - Right?
I mean, it's one thing to say,
well, we're gonna create a new project
and we're gonna work on it,
but almost no one starts jobs with brand new projects.
They start jobs with,
here's what we've been working on for four years.
It's kind of clunky, but it works.
- Right. - Here we go, right?
- Right, 100%, 100%.
And I wrote a blog post about this,
but, and then my mentees, right,
a lot of them come out of bootcamps
and they're used to right-click new project, right?
And I'm like, that's not where you're gonna go, right?
You're gonna jump into a code base
that is not the latest and greatest React,
you know, functional components, right?
You're gonna have old stuff and you gotta be productive.
It's a huge, I mean, I'm sure the audience will know,
it'd be great to hear, you know,
last time you joined a dev team,
how long it took you to just get your computer set up
and get your environment set up and get familiar, right?
It's a week, at least a week, if not two weeks.
- Yeah, or, you know, your machine dies.
- Yeah. - And you're like,
well, now I gotta get it all set up again.
I haven't done that for a year and a half,
so I forgot how to do that, right?
- Right, yeah, I'm trying to get everything into containers
as much as possible, run everything in containers.
When you get into the GUI apps, it gets a little fun,
but yeah, if you're running everything in containers,
it makes it super simple to be able to move those.
Onboard new devs, yeah, 100%, 100%.
- So another one of those
that I think we kind of already touched on more or less
is reliable development.
Like everybody's working literally on the same system
and you don't have the, you know,
works on my machine certification thing.
- Yeah, 100%.
- Another one though is, you know, I'm here on my Mac,
but maybe I want to do things that are as close as possible
to where I deploy my various stuff things,
which is Ubuntu, right?
And Mac is kind of like Ubuntu.
I mean, it's got sort of a Unix flavor to it,
but it's not Ubuntu itself.
It's not exactly that, right?
And so having this ability to be closer to the environment
that you're going to run at,
or you're going to deploy to,
even though you happen to be developing
on something that's not that.
- Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, being able to get correct versions, right?
Of everything across your stack is very hard, right?
It seems simple, but it's not.
- I mean, I could get Nginx,
I could brew and install Nginx onto my machine,
which I probably have done already,
but maybe I've got like the latest greatest,
whereas by default over on Ubuntu,
if I just say, you know, apt install Nginx,
I think it's held back a little ways for some reason,
unless you really like configure it for the latest sources.
And so, you know, maybe the configuration file
has something new that I could do on my machine
that's supported, but if I try to put it out there,
it's just going to, you know, service failed to start.
- Yeah. - Go find a log file
somewhere and figure this out, right?
That's, especially when you're new, it's like,
I don't even know where the log files are.
Why is this happening to me?
It's so frustrating.
- Right, right.
Or yeah, if, yeah, you're pulling down a project
and the remit getting started is compile, right?
Make, run make, right?
Yeah, and unless you're a C, a Linux C developer
and you start getting errors, you know,
off the stack overflow you go
and start randomly trying things, right?
And that, as a senior developer, you know,
like I'm so scared I'm a foo bar my machine, right?
'Cause I'm just changing settings and stuff and.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, it's, but if you were doing that
all inside of your container and really a Docker file
is the steps you would do to install an application, right?
And so they're all there repeatable,
have the correct versions of, you know,
libraries all in the image, right?
- One thing I think is a simple preconception to have
is like Docker saves me from knowing Linux
in terms of the commands.
So I don't need to know Linux if I'm gonna run on Docker
and maybe off to Kubernetes or whatever.
And so I can just do Docker and then everything will be fine.
But in practice, like those steps you just described,
those are apt install this, you know,
and the various configuration commands of Linux itself.
So there, you do need to know a little bit.
There's a very small subset that you need to do,
but you know, you don't really have to be an admin of Linux.
So I do think it takes down the bar,
but I also think it's interesting that it's,
you still kind of have to know a little bit
about how to set up the system.
- Yeah, yeah.
And it's nice 'cause you can start high level like,
hey, I just run my Mongo image and it works
and I'm not exactly sure.
- Right, here's the connection string, we're good.
- Yeah, here's the connection string.
And then if you start, okay, I wanna build my own
and I wanna get slimmest images as possible, right?
You're gonna start diving more in it.
And really the skillset to build your images
is you have to understand Docker,
but then you also have to understand Linux commands, right?
How to install things on Linux, configure them.
- Yeah. - For sure.
But you don't, to your point, right?
You don't have to start there.
Like, don't become a super, you know, admin, you know.
- Get the Linux command line Bible or whatever book
and like start tearing through it.
I think that's a book.
- Yeah, I think it is too.
You can go very far without knowing that,
just basic Linux command.
- Yeah, yeah, I got a few examples of like,
these are the three things you really gotta do.
- Yeah, and the nice thing too about official images
that you can, they're stored in GitHub too.
So if you go in the hub and see it,
you can jump into the GitHub repo
and actually read the Docker file.
So it's a great way to kind of learn, right?
Of best practices and those types of things, yeah.
- Yeah, absolutely.
You talked about building like thin images and whatnot.
One of the interesting things is taking these Docker files
and layering them, right?
Like, instead of just saying,
I'm gonna, well, I'm gonna need Nginx
and I'm gonna need Python, I'm gonna need all this.
So let's just build one that has all that.
And then any minor change you make to the Docker file
means you completely rebuild all of that stuff.
And maybe part of that's compiled from source
that takes two minutes and it's like,
why is this so slow, right?
You could make that four or five Docker files
that one depends on the other, that depends on the other
in very like subtle, small ways.
So like only the very last bit that changes
maybe really requires much work, right?
You wanna speak to that a little?
- Yeah, yeah.
So you can do two things in there.
I think you wanna make sure,
one of the best practices you wanna do
is only run one process inside of a container.
And I use container and image sometimes interchangeably.
So, and then I get yelled at for the people that-
- I'm probably making it wrong.
So I meant image, I believe, yeah.
- No, and you're totally fine, right?
'Cause you can use them interchangeably,
but so container is just a running image, right?
And if you're a computer scientist
or object oriented programmer,
it's your class and your objects.
So your class is your image
and then your object is your container.
So containers are instance of running.
And yeah, but I use them interchangeably all the time
and I get yelled at in a lot of my talks,
but generally speaking,
one process running inside of your container,
you know, it's the old Linux idea, separation concerns,
do one thing, do really well,
microservices, those type of things.
But then to be able to create your images
as small as possible, right?
You can do multi-stage builds is what we call it.
So you can have a stage in your Docker file
that builds your app, that has all your compilers,
your libraries, everything you need
to build your application,
make that one part of your Docker file.
And then below that, you can reference that.
And so like a lot of Golang stuff,
and we do this internally,
is we'll use Docker to build all our apps,
multi-architectural to architect.
And then below that, just pull out the compiled binary
and put that in my image.
So now your image is extremely small.
It only has your executable in it
and everything else that you, the compiler tools, GCC,
all that type of stuff is left out.
- Oh, that's interesting, yeah.
- Yeah, so those are kind of like throwaway containers.
It'll do everything in container,
get your nice dev build environment, build it,
and then pull only what you need out.
So even like in a node world where you're not,
it's not a compiled language or Python's compiled,
not a compiled language, right?
You could do everything you need in an earlier stage
and then pull that out,
just what you need into the final stage
to be able to serve those up in your runtime, that's it.
And that's the best way to kind of get the smallest,
lightest images you want.
And the smaller and lightest, you can get them,
then they're easier to pass around.
They're easier to start, they're faster to start up.
And the attack surface from a security perspective
is very small.
- Yeah, less is better there.
- Less is better, yeah.
- Absolutely.
All right, some other areas that I think,
two more that are certainly related,
but not exactly the same.
I feel like the data science side has a lot to gain
from the whole container stuff,
because so often the environments are multi-technology.
You might have, oh, we're gonna use this library
and it depends on Fortran.
We'll use this library and it depends on Rust
and then we're gonna control that from a Jupyter notebook.
It's different environments make that harder,
easier to set up.
And so I feel like data science has a lot to benefit
from here as well.
- Yeah, I think so too.
And that's not my world day to day for sure.
So I gave a talk at the Toronto Machine Learning Group
a while back, the talk should be online.
So if you're interested, you have to check that out.
And when I was, stepped back and really thought about
what I wanted to talk about
and how is Docker really helpful in these scenarios.
And it's kind of all the things we've been talking about.
It's how do I share my dataset
with other data scientists, right?
And you can put those in images
and you can put those in volumes and share those, right?
And then how do I get a consistent environment to,
reproducibility is the biggest thing in science, right?
- Right, that's the other half of that
that I was hinting at, that's right.
- Yeah, yeah.
And so having that reproducibility
that I can share with other scientists
and you have everything packaged together
that I was running, right?
And you might swap out the data with your own data,
but the process is all the same.
So I think reproducibility is huge.
And talking with those folks, the machine learning folks,
that's what they were looking for, right?
Is how do I pass this around?
How do I share this?
How do I get my environment up quickly
without having to become a full-blown computer scientist,
right, a software engineer.
- Or an admin or something.
- An admin, yeah.
- But one of the challenges,
in science in general, I believe lately,
is there's been, I don't know,
what should you call it, a crisis of reproducibility,
but like a real focus on reproducibility.
And because of that,
I think some folks have realized certain studies
are very hard to reproduce.
And it used to be what they would publish is,
here's a graph I generated with my software,
and here's the analysis of the graph.
And you're like, well, that could mean anything.
I can make a graph out of anything.
That doesn't mean very much, right?
And so then the move to like Jupyter Notebooks
and IPython and so on,
and so well, here's the code,
and here's the graph, and here's the explanation.
And that's fantastic.
But what version of the library
that maybe had a small interior change
that no one sees that might propagate
some change down there.
And you can solidify all that stuff
into a Docker container,
and then say, this is exactly what we ran.
At least, maybe it was wrong, maybe it was right,
but this is what we did.
- Right, yeah.
Yeah, just even a minor tick in a version
of an algorithm that's processing the data, right?
And I'm one tick behind you,
and well, that's not the same, right?
It's not the same.
- It might be okay,
but we need to know that that's how the difference is.
You know, one thing that's interesting,
have you seen this project, Gigantum?
- No, I haven't, no.
- Okay, so this one, I had these guys on the show
back on episode 238,
and it's really all about Docker.
It's super interesting.
- Oh, cool.
- So it's like a collaborative way
for building local environments in Docker,
but then sharing those,
and then you can work on them,
and then you can publish them to the cloud,
and there's all these cool activity streams.
And it's just all about orchestrating data science
with facilitating that by doing Docker.
They have interesting things,
like if you go in and open up like a terminal,
and you type some commands,
I believe they try to like capture those,
and make those part of what has to be done
to the Docker container,
even though you didn't change the file.
So they're trying to do a lot of stuff
to make it like really the same.
So I don't know, it's an interesting idea.
- Oh, that's interesting.
I'm gonna go check it out.
Yeah, jumping back to our earlier conversation,
building that Docker file, right,
is, and especially when you're learning commands, right,
that build debug cycle, test cycles,
can be painful a little bit.
Yeah, so we're trying to think about that at Docker, right?
Like it's one thing to have an image
and just run it and use it,
and then it's another to build an image, right,
a very complex image and kind of,
so what you end up doing is kind of what you say,
you create a base image,
and then you're inside of that running commands,
and then go, crap, okay, what did I run there?
- Exactly. - And then you write that down.
- Yeah, we kind of love to reverse sometimes.
That thing I just did to make this work,
make that part of the Docker file, you know?
- Right. (laughs)
- Extract what I did,
those five things I typed on the terminal command prompt
when I logged in with Docker run, you know,
Z shell or bash.
- Yeah. - I need that too.
- Yeah, yeah, 100%, 100%.
- Yeah, advice, do you got advice on that?
I mean.
- It's basically saving at each point.
Right now it's very low fidelity, right?
You're running the command and then,
and trying to remember, right?
And it's painful.
- Yeah. - Yeah, it's very painful.
- Some up arrow action, like, okay, I did that,
then down arrow, down arrow, down, okay,
those are the things, something like that.
- Yeah, yeah.
We've been playing around
with some interactive lightweight kind of,
I say editors, but tools, right?
To build your images.
So the concept of building an image from scratch,
it's where you kind of,
you can do a top or a Docker file,
say from, you know, Ubuntu or from Alpine.
Well, you can do from scratch,
and that's literally nothing, right?
And you're moving everything in yourself.
And that's tough, but it's,
if you, the most secure and leanest image,
that's the way to do it.
And yeah, so we've been thinking about tools around that.
And it's exactly that,
capturing what you're doing and what works, right?
So you can play a little bit and take,
you know, try and figure things out.
And then once you figure it out, you're like, oh crap,
what was that sequence that just worked, right?
'Cause I did five things,
but those three things were what actually worked.
And that could be tough for sure.
- Yeah, yeah, it is.
I find that what I do is I'll fire,
I'll try to create the Docker file.
It'll invariably fail in some way that I didn't predict.
So then I'll get it as far as I can,
run it in an interactive mode and try to, you know,
get it to go to where I want it and then go, okay,
well, these were the steps.
Maybe it errored out during the build,
but you couldn't figure out why.
So you want to go explore something
to see what the log generated for that failure.
- Right.
- There's a little bit of back and forth.
- Yes, a hundred percent, a hundred percent, yeah.
Yeah.
- When you think about things like attaching,
basically using Docker within some of these tools
like PyCharm and VS Code,
both have these ways to say,
just run this, but in Docker when I press debug.
- Yeah, I'm, you know, my old school developer,
you know, no fancy editors, right?
Text editor, you know, it dies a little bit inside,
but I've had to get over that, right?
I'm like, no, right?
Like I tell my mentees too, I'm like, okay,
when we start, like you're in a text editor,
remove all, remove all the tools
'cause you've got to feel the pain to understand.
But with that said, right?
Yeah, I mean, the tools are fantastic, right?
The context switching, right?
If you can stay right in your ID, your main tool
and do everything within there and do it really well,
it's super powerful.
The VS Code plugin is super powerful, right?
Of managing your containers, running containers,
dev containers, connecting into ACI and Azure
and launching your containers right there.
It's extremely powerful, yeah.
- Yeah, I feel like it's gonna get to the point
where you might be running stuff in Docker,
but you don't even know it.
- Yeah.
- You might conceptually know,
but there's nothing about what you do or what you see
that makes you feel like, oh, it's running in Docker.
You just, I pressed run.
It did these things.
I saw it in my browser or I saw the output.
Yeah, I don't know where that happened, right?
But it happened in Docker.
- Yep, exactly.
Yeah, it just works, right?
That's where we're trying to go is like with our tools
is like you, the more you know, they get out of the way,
right, they're not in your way
is maybe the best way to say it.
- Yeah.
- Right, really good tools, you kind of go,
does that really doing a lot for me?
And then when you figure it, you're like, oh yeah,
it's doing a ton, I just didn't don't know it.
It does it so well, right?
- Right, exactly.
I think we have time for two more topics
that we can touch on.
So we talked about the multi-container stuff
and we talked about, you know, run this on my cloud.
And I feel like a lot of times what that means these days
is Kubernetes, right?
Everybody seems to have a hosted Kubernetes offering.
Sometimes that means just give us your container,
others that means, well, we'll really just run the cluster
sort of configure it for you,
but you kind of got to still own those VMs that run it.
- Yeah.
- There's some sort of spectrum there.
You know, what are your thoughts on people working
with Kubernetes versus just directly with Docker itself
or maybe even a pass, like almost a serverless type thing?
- Yeah, yeah, I think, yeah, I think there's a,
if you spend a lot of time on the internet, right,
we're all on the bleeding edge, right?
- Yeah, we absolutely are, yeah.
- Yeah, you read a lot of blog posts about, you know,
Kubernetes and service meshes and serverless
and those are all fantastic and wonderful, right?
But a lot of us out there are not,
we're not the Googles or the Netflix
or, you know, Disney plus, right?
- Yeah.
- You can see I watch a lot of movies, but anyways.
(both laughing)
You know, so you have small teams,
small three, five person teams
that really are writing the majority
of the software out there, right?
And there's nothing wrong with standing a VM up,
putting a Docker engine in it
and running your containers like that, right?
That's how we started.
It's extremely powerful to, you know,
before I came to Docker,
had a consulting business, a custom dev,
and that's how we ran all over our containers, right?
We had a Docker engine installed on a VM,
sometimes two VMs, right,
that we managed as the orchestrator.
And it ran fantastic and we could scale,
we had load, right?
It was, and to update it and to maintain it,
all the things we've kind of been talking about today
were super simple because the only prerequisite
for the VM was to have the engine installed.
- Yeah.
And to be honest, that's how my stuff is running now.
I have a CI, CD stuff set up.
So I do get pushed to a certain branch.
My VMs automatically work with the load balancer.
They automatically update themselves.
They restart and re, like it's, it's hands off, right?
- Yeah.
- And you know, it's a small, small set of us,
like it, it works.
- Yeah.
A hundred percent, a hundred percent.
And, and serverless, and then,
and then also kind of the container
passes that are out there.
So ECS,
ACI.
So ECS is a lack,
elastic container service from Amazon.
ACI is Azure Container Instances.
And I don't know if Google has one, they probably do too.
Love you Google.
But yeah, anyways, you know,
it's being able to take your container and just run it,
run it in the cloud
and worry about the container running
and where it needs, what it needs to do
and how it needs to run, right?
And ECS will take care of the rest underneath the,
underneath the covers.
And that, that's a fantastic option.
I mean, it's a, it's kind of, you know,
it's like those progressions, right?
If you're doing a single VM with the Docker engine
or, or two of them, a couple of them,
and that becomes painful when you need to scale,
really look at ECS or ACI, right?
Because that helps you scale a lot easier
and you don't need to be a Kubernetes expert.
And then if you do, then go to Kubernetes.
But I always tell people,
and Swarm is a great option too.
Swarm is an incredible orchestrator.
It works.
- How does that compare to Kubernetes?
You know, I hear Docker Compose,
I hear Swarm, I hear Kubernetes.
I'm not sure when I should be thinking about which.
- Yeah.
Well, so Compose is fantastic for a local development.
I would use it primarily there.
You can use Compose to deploy in the production, but-
- Would I use Compose if I had only a single container
I wanted to run?
But maybe it had a complicated layering potentially.
- Yeah.
Yeah. So Compose works great there too.
Even just, even if you're running one container
and all the command line switches and flags
and environment variables and secrets,
all those types of things,
like put them all in your Compose file.
So one, you don't have to write a, remember all of them.
And two, you don't write bash scripts
to just run the Docker command, right?
Yeah. You plug them all in just like that.
You can see your pass imports,
they have volumes, all those types of things, right?
- Yeah.
- It's super simple.
Yes. So I would absolutely do that.
And then, and then, oh,
I forget what we were talking about.
- I was sort of talking about your thoughts on Kubernetes.
And then I asked you as I compare Swarm, Kubernetes,
and Compose.
- Yeah. Kubernetes is dead to me.
That's why I forgot.
No, I'm just kidding.
I love Kubernetes.
Again, I'm going to get beat up.
No, I, but you know, when I tell people start,
think about Swarm, right?
If you're doing a one instance,
don't jump to, like have really good reasons
to jump into Kubernetes.
It's super powerful.
It's a, it's a great tool.
It really is, but it comes with a ton of complexity, right?
- Yeah.
- So don't need to-
- There's, like I said before,
there's a difference between
I want to run this on Kubernetes
and I want to have my own Kubernetes cluster
for which I'm the admin.
- Right. 100%.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
And don't get stuck in,
also another advice and, you know,
like some engineers are like,
don't get focused on developing for your resume, right?
You know, a lot of times,
oh, we got to get in Kubernetes
and I want to have Kubernetes and all this, right?
And, and yeah, you know,
you want to learn new technology and stay cutting edge,
but it, that's a tough one.
It's a tough one to go to.
Yeah. You can get very far with single engines,
with Compose and then with Swarm.
And Swarm is a great orchestrator.
It's built into the engine.
It is, it moved to the enterprise with Mirantis
when they bought the Docker Enterprise business.
So they maintain it.
We got, we got out of Docker proper.
It's gotten out of the orchestration business,
but it's a fantastic orchestrator.
It just works.
A prior life at Docker,
I ran all the customer success technology.
So our knowledge base, our search engine,
our training tools and everything.
And we ran on Compose.
And Compose and all on Swarm,
five, nine uptime, never touched it.
Didn't have to give up the team, right?
It just, it really works.
And then when you, when you need things like sidecars
and more complex networking
and the more complex data storage,
volumes, those types of things,
that's where Kubernetes really shines.
But other than that, you know,
Swarm is fantastic and single engines
will get you very far.
- Nice.
- And then like you said, I would go to EKS
or something like that first, right?
Have a Kubernetes cluster and manage at the level
that you need to manage at and nothing lower, right?
- Right, makes sense.
Chris McDonough, creator of Pyramid framework
out there is in the live stream.
Says Compose kind of fills the same space
as Buildout did in Python land
for managing one or multiple containers locally.
Yeah, awesome.
Hello, Chris, thanks for being here.
- Hey, Chris.
- Yeah, yeah, very cool.
So the last thing that I want to touch on,
the last topic I think we have time to talk about
is the future, you know, where things going.
- Yeah.
- Fokker, right?
Like we've seen this move to focusing more on,
you said shift the left,
more on the developer tools and whatnot.
- Yeah.
- Where are we going?
- Yeah, so I'm glad you brought it to Rome, Matt.
Thank you, my bosses will be happy.
My masters.
Anyways, love you, Matt.
But so get help out there for doc/doc/roadmap.
That is our public roadmap.
That is our roadmap, right?
We work on that roadmap.
We're actually coming out with a blog post with a feature
and that was spawned, came out of the roadmap, right?
It was an idea from the community.
It's integrating in with different terminals
with Docker desktop.
And that came out of the community and people said,
hey, I run iTerm on my Mac
and set is 99% of the other developers on Mac.
We want that integrated, our integrated desktop.
And so the upticks were really great.
Anyways, we implemented.
So you'll see Ben,
if you're looking at the screen on the right,
Ben is the best PM I've ever worked with.
Seriously, he's fantastic, but he is in there constantly.
Yeah, so we look at this roadmap, we follow this roadmap,
we build off of this roadmap.
We don't have a secret shadow internal roadmap, right?
And we say, hey, yeah.
- We've got different channels for like Windows
and Microsoft and the engine and all that stuff, right?
- Yep, yep.
- Yeah.
- And so go through, read through there,
put in an issue if you have one, if you don't find it.
It's where you can interact, add comments,
those types of things.
Yeah, we do use that constantly.
But I don't, so we have DockerCon coming up,
so I don't wanna give any secrets away, but yeah,
we have, I would say, look for us in this year,
the past year, we really kind of solidified the business,
right, really did a lot of things that Docker didn't do
in its early days, right, as a business wise.
You know, we were shifting around a lot,
but focus back on hub and say, hey, let's tighten up hub.
This is a place where a massive amount
of developers come for value.
So we tightened it up, put in good features
like audit logging and more team features
and fixed our plans and seats and how the pricing
and how that works.
And then started moving towards developer tools.
So integrating it with ECS, ACI into the public clouds,
you'll see a lot more of that coming.
You see a lot more tools around local development,
container first development, a lot of sharing.
So be interesting to say, I'm working on a feature,
I have a branch, and I wanna share that with you, Michael.
Hey, you know, take a look at this real quick.
And now you're in that same scenario, right?
I have to check out your branch.
If I'm doing everything on my machine,
do I have all the versions correct?
Do I have everything right?
Well, what if you could just wrap that all up a container
and I just share it with you and you fire that container up
and you're in a dev environment
and it not just running the container,
but able to see my code and everything
and the app running inside the container
and interact with it, right?
- Yeah, that's cool.
- So that's powerful.
- That sounds a little bit like the VS Code feature
where they have that's like launch this in code
off of GitHub and it just like sets up
that remote environment.
- Yep, exactly, exactly.
Yep, launch this for me.
And also too, I can notify you, right?
So you get in a little desktop notify,
hey, you got something shared with you
and you launch this in VS Code
and it brings it all in for you.
- Yeah, cool.
- Into your earlier point, you go,
oh, if you didn't know you're running containers,
you might not know it, right?
It's like, oh, I just got this PR shared with me
and I wanna check it out, right?
And it's just-
- Push the run button and it's good, it's running.
- I push the run button, yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, awesome.
- Yeah, so a lot of stuff coming around that,
a lot of more features for teams
and sharing features coming in Hub.
We have security scanning in there now.
Yeah, a lot of interesting-
- The thing that GitHub added was notifications
of security CVEs and whatnot,
like periodically I'll log in and I did this class
that interacted in a very minor way with an electron JS app.
And it's always like your repository
has this critical vulnerability
because some random version in a package lock.json,
as you know, like, so for me, I'm like,
I don't really need that, but I'll go ahead
and just accept it 'cause I just need it to be quiet to me.
But in general, those features are super useful
when those come up for your actual code.
- Yeah.
- Anything like that you guys are thinking about?
- Yeah, so we partnered with Snyk,
which is a dev security scanning company,
security company, I shouldn't say just scanning
'cause they do a bunch of stuff,
but now you have Docker space scan.
So you can scan your images locally, get reports,
see high, low severities, yeah.
And then that'll run in Hub.
So when you push into Hub, your images will be scanned
if you have it turned on.
And so you have a central place where you can see all those.
And then you can use Snyk to remediate them
and those types of stuff.
And Snyk has really good tools-
- Because maybe you scanned even,
you could have scanned locally,
push your stuff to production.
- Right.
- And then you haven't touched it for three weeks.
But in the meantime, something's come out
you need to take action on, right?
And so having it on the Hub, giving you notifications,
it's constantly running, right?
- Exactly, exactly.
Yeah, and yeah, being able to get notified
of your base images, right?
So if you're running, you know,
the note or the Python base image, right?
When that changes underneath you, right?
And there's security vulnerabilities introduced,
you wanna know, right?
Should I go to the next version or not, right?
And then I think too, to your earlier point of,
you know, it's like, I'm not a security professional, right?
So I see these reports and I do a scan and I go,
oh heck, you know, 300, you know,
high severity vulnerabilities, right?
What do I do?
And I think what we're trying to do is say,
hey, you know, here's how you remediate that, right?
You're on version 3.2, if you bump up to 3.3, it fixes these.
So you should do that, right?
A little minor version upgrade or major upgrade
takes you to, instead of 300,
now you have 20 vulnerabilities, right?
And they're all medium, so yeah.
Yeah, I think we need that as engineers
to be able to get our job done quicker,
writing code, you know, it's a primary function, right?
So I got a bunch of these vulnerabilities
and to your point, you kind of like just,
yes, just clear these red Xs off of here, right?
We might not know exactly what's going on.
So really trying to help you
remediate those vulnerabilities,
but also understand why and what you're doing, right?
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- Yeah, that sounds really valuable.
I mean, if we got it for our code,
we should have it for basically our infrastructure.
Comment from the live stream,
could Docker potentially be able to share
really big files across the globe,
allowing others to read code easily?
How would this work?
Honestly, I don't know.
I mean, it certainly will allow you to share files
as images and it will definitely allow you
to have environments set up like data science environments
that could analyze those, but what are your thoughts?
- Yeah, I think we could do some of that now.
So, you know, through hub being able to just Docker push
and Docker pull is very powerful, right?
You can get a whole disk image, let's say.
- Right, 'cause instead of getting just the Docker file,
you got to build, you get the result,
which could have had files copied in locally
and all set up in the file system internally, right?
- Yeah, yeah. - Yeah.
- Yeah, so two ways to share with just the Docker file
and say, "Hey, build this yourself,"
or "I've built it, here you go," right?
- Yeah.
- But I would love to hear, you know,
reach out to me on Twitter or something, right?
And let me know, I'd love to hear more
of what you're trying to do
'cause that sounds interesting, right?
- Yeah. - Bandwidth is interesting
to around the world, right?
So, you know, I sit here in Austin
where, you know, high speed internet,
well, really the rest of the world doesn't have that, right?
So low bandwidth and, you know,
of course I got a screaming, you know, desktop laptop,
right, that I use in fast and not, you know,
the whole world doesn't have those advantages.
So, you know, and if I'm pulling down a Mongo,
some image, right, and I'm picking on Mongo all the time,
but, you know, if it's over a gig, that's big, right?
That'll take a while on some networks, so.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- Yeah, with all the video and video courses
and audio processing and file exchange,
I've had to buy unlimited data from Comcast
'cause I was going over my 1.2 terabyte per month data caps
every month, it was ridiculous.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, so a lot of data these days.
All right, well, you know,
fantastic stuff you guys have coming up there.
I guess maybe we should probably wrap it up
just for the sake of time, but, you know,
I guess we'll hit the two final questions I always ask.
First of all, notable PyPI package.
This is like something interesting that you ran across,
and maybe you wanted to share,
people that find useful, some Python library.
- Yeah, and because I love testing,
so testcontainers.python, if, and that's a little inside joke
that no one on here really knows,
but I have developer friends,
so I will, one of my favorite things
to argue against is testing, just as a thought experiment,
but it's really fun, right?
But anyways, but I'm gonna go ahead
and say that, but anyways, but don't listen to me.
Testing is super important, right?
And being able to test in containers
and pick off these prebuilt containers
and use right in your app, right, in your code
is super powerful, extremely powerful.
So definitely interested in testcontainers.
- Yeah, it's super cool.
It lets you basically create a with block
that says with mysql container as mysql
or with my MongoDB container as that,
and it just fires up a Docker container.
You do your tests within that thing
and maybe use a pytest fixture to preload the test data,
then run your code against it.
So instead of mocking out the database
and mocking out Redis, you just run a test Redis
and then throw it away, which I think that's fantastic.
It's like a hybrid between integration tests
and unit tests, isolation type stuff.
- Yeah, yeah.
It goes back to our earlier conversations
around reproducibility, right?
- Yeah, having same environments are very important, right?
- Yeah, absolutely.
And then final question, if you're gonna write some code,
what editor do you use these days?
- Now, if you would have asked me that
about two years ago, it would have been Sublime.
- Okay.
- Plain text editor, back and forth,
alt tabbing back and forth between my terminal.
But now I've fallen in love with VS Code.
- Yeah.
- It's extremely powerful.
So I feel like Sublime, like so many of the people
who love Sublime have just naturally moved to VS Code.
I mean, Sublime was really cool.
It just had all these like weird community stuff.
Like there was Sublime and then Sublime 3
and there was like permanently in beta
and like, are these getting updated?
Which one is like the real thing?
It just, it was always kind of a little unclear
where it was going.
And then, you know, VS Code came along with a similar model
and just said, well, why don't we put a hundred people
just like constantly adding features to this?
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
- I don't know what the number is, but it's high.
- Yeah, and it's interesting you say that
because I was a long time Sublime,
I bought it, right, I purchased it forever.
And yeah, it was like two or three
and I have a theme over here, but it doesn't work in three.
And how do you get it?
It was just weird.
And then VS Code just kind of snuck in
and I said, yeah, I'm gonna use it, I'm gonna use it.
And now I keep just using,
I used it as a text editor back then, right?
And now I just keep using more and more features, plugins.
Yeah, I mean, the ecosystem around that is so powerful.
- There's neat stuff.
And especially there's a lot of neat Docker things
going on in it.
- Yeah, yeah, I'm gonna run my VS Code in a Docker
and then run dev containers.
- It'll be like inception, it'll be Docker.
- Yeah, no inception.
- Docker VS Code all the way down.
All right, you got a moment for a couple more
audience questions before we wrap it up?
- Absolutely.
You know me, I'll chat away for days,
but I know your audience might get bored.
- All right, so Brian Sands is out there.
Hey, Brian, says, do you know of any good examples
you and Docker compose with Postgres
for persistent local storage?
I have a hard time finding up-to-date working
and vote to do this properly.
- Yeah, check out Awesome Compose.
So it's a GitHub repo, Docker owns it.
So Awesome-Compose, I can't remember if it lives
under the Docker organization or not,
but there's a ton of, yeah, right there.
There's a ton of different kind of configurations
with different stacks.
- Super interesting, I had no idea about this.
- Yeah, we're trying.
Yeah, thank you, Brian.
I'll send you that, I'll Venmo you here in a minute.
No, but yeah, check that out.
There's, if you can't get your specific stack,
you're gonna get something very close, right?
So you get, there's Flask in there,
there's Nginx like Flask and Postgres,
different kind of three tiered stacks.
And then within that, you'll have Docker files,
and then you'll have a compose file
to kind of bring it all together.
And you should get some really great examples in there.
If not, please do hit me up on Twitter
and I'll get you pointed in the right direction for sure.
- Yeah, very cool, awesome.
And then Tino asks,
what is the current state of Windows-based Docker containers?
I know there's NanoServer.
- Yeah, I gotta tread lightly on this one.
I was super excited when Microsoft,
when we started supporting it,
and then for Windows containers,
the focus has been not as much.
The amount of people actually using Windows containers
is very, very small compared to Unix-based containers.
So, just because of that, the focus has not been on that,
but there's still a thing,
they're still being developed on.
Just not, they're just not as prominent in the industry
for whatever reason, especially with Docker.
- Well, you know where I would say they probably,
as is standard with Microsoft these days,
their focus seems to be if it runs on Azure.
- Yeah, we love it.
- Right, this is where we will sacrifice
many, many of the things so that it will run on Azure.
And a lot of that, I believe, is check this thing in Windows
and like say Visual Studio Code,
so I can push deploy to run on Docker on Azure.
I think that's probably where a lot of it is.
- Yeah, yeah, and WSL2 is huge, right?
So talking to the Microsoft folks,
they wanna be the place where you come,
the Windows platform is the place you come for developing.
So whether you're a Windows developer
or a Linux developer, you're using VS Code,
you're running on Windows,
you're using WSL2 for Unix development,
or you're using Windows for Windows development.
That's their thought, right?
So the underlying platforms kind of change
and with containers, they can do some of that.
So they're focusing a lot on WSL2, which is super powerful.
- Right, which really just means make WSL2 good
so that it runs on Ubuntu or something like that.
I mean, we just leveraged the Ubuntu Docker support,
I suspect.
- Yep, yeah.
- Yeah, while we're talking platforms,
I've been doing basically nothing but M1 stuff these days.
Since mid-December, I thought I would,
I got my Mac mini M1 and I thought I'd be juggling.
This would work here, that would work there.
And I just literally have just turned off my laptop
and just do this.
And I love it.
What's the story with Docker and M1?
- Yeah, so we love Apple.
It was nice to see our little,
I don't know if you saw an Apple's keynote,
where you saw the Docker desktop on there,
which was super cool.
But yeah, we're getting very, very close to shipping
a release, a GA.
I mean, really close.
I don't wanna give a date or anything, but really.
- You know, tomorrow.
- Yeah. - Tomorrow will be okay.
We'll do that.
I'll take it.
- But very, very, very close.
So working on it.
It's one of our primary feature sets
to finish to get done, right?
And again, it came from the community.
It was our number one issue, right?
When the M1s dropped,
I think everybody jumped into our GitHub issue.
And we need support.
- I think all M1 stuff has come out way stronger
than I expected.
I thought, oh, that'd be kind of a need.
Who knows what they're doing?
But like, as it came out, I was like, wow,
this is really transformative in some ways.
- Yeah.
And you can get the tech preview.
It's pretty stable right now.
It's just gonna be on probably one-off little issues
on your environment, how you run containers
and what exactly, what container,
because they gotta be compiled for the different--
- It's gotta basically be an arm image.
- Yeah.
Yeah, and sometimes you run arm,
but then Mongo doesn't have an arm version yet.
So you're running it in emulation.
And so there's those types of things,
but we're very, very close to releasing GA.
Stay tuned next couple of weeks, I would say.
- Yeah, fantastic.
And shout out to the MongoDB people.
Where's your M1 version?
Come on.
All right, final question.
Wrap it up.
Ricardo says, "Networking on Docker feels like
"it's easier with LXC, one of the other container styles.
"Am I doing something wrong?
"I'm interested in giving a container its own IP address."
Peter, this is you, I have no idea.
- Yeah, Ricardo.
I thought I was gonna get out of here
without any networking questions.
But Ricardo, you are not alone.
Networking in containers is difficult, right?
You gotta deal with different networking technologies,
even locally.
So yeah, it's not easy.
- Is this easier in something like Swarm or Kubernetes
or something else that maybe controls it more?
- No, it gets even more complicated.
(both laughing)
Once you step outside of,
when you have, if you have cloud native apps, right?
And I'm not a huge fan of that term,
'cause what the heck does that mean?
But--
- That means I would have permanently paid
to run my app forever.
(both laughing)
- Thank you.
Exactly.
But yeah.
So if you're in microservices,
you're using configuration outside of your app
to control your app, right?
Is the best.
But I see a lot of legacy apps.
I'll do legacy in double quotes also, right?
Because just meaning not more microservice type apps, right?
And so you're trying to run those apps inside of containers
and they have unique networking needs,
unique volume needs, right?
They're still writing to disk and reading from disk
and you can't control that without changing code.
Or they have IP addresses or subnets
kind of hardwired in, right?
And you can't do a lot of that.
So you've got to configure your networking around your app
with inside a container
and that's where the complexity comes in.
So, you know, like, so in this scenario,
giving your container its own IP address,
you know, it's a little bit about,
against best practices, right?
So containers should be ephemeral.
They should go away, right?
You should think of them.
And I got to get a better analogy.
My apologies to anybody, if this offends you,
but, you know, we think of our,
we used to think of our VMs as pets, right?
And we take care of them,
keep them up and love them,
love them and, you know, hope they live forever, right?
Configure them.
And then now you have containers, which are more like,
let's say, I used to say cattle,
but I'm worried that offends people.
So let's say consumable foods, right?
You know, like--
- Fungible elements.
- Yeah.
So they're more like a cake, right?
If I get cake in my house, I'm eating that, right?
And it's gone.
And then if I want new cake, I got to put new cake, right?
- Yeah, good and bad.
You don't try to rehabilitate it.
You just get new cake.
- Right, right.
Yeah, but you don't eat half the cake and then bake,
you know, and put another bake the half.
This is, that analogy is going poor.
- Speak for yourself.
We refill our cake.
We don't ever want to go down to zero cake.
- Right, but that's the idea.
So if you're assigning an IP to a container,
that container goes away, right?
And the idea is if I'm orchestrating
that I have multiple containers, we're all running,
they shouldn't have the same IP, right?
If one goes away, one comes back up, you don't want to,
you know, so those are the type of things
you're getting into.
And Ricardo, you're probably shaking your head going,
yes, but, but, but, but, but, and I totally need it.
Yeah, I totally understand.
And you can do it, but it's just a little more complex.
Yeah, a little hard to answer on, you know,
with a couple of minutes here, but.
- Yeah, it hits you up on Twitter.
All right.
So thank you so much for being here, Peter.
It's super interesting.
Final call to action.
People want to get started maybe making Docker
more of their life.
What do they do?
- Yeah, definitely go hit me up on Twitter.
Say hello.
Love to talk to folks.
Join our community, jump into community Slack.
If you're, questions like that, Ricardo,
the community is there, they'll be very, very helpful.
A lot of our engineers, our developers are in there.
All of our PMs are in there.
Ton of captains are in there.
Docker captains are in there.
And they're very, very helpful.
So this is a great way to get plugged in in the community.
And then the last thing is DockerCon
is coming up here in the May.
Sign up for DockerCon.
It's going to be an online live event.
Last year we had 80,000 registrants,
a really, really big show.
So you're not going to want to miss it.
Great content coming.
You get to see more of my smiley face.
And then CFP is still open.
We're getting ready to close it on the 15th.
So if you ever thought about giving a talk, right,
please submit.
If you're a first time speaker,
don't let that deter you, right?
DockerCon is traditionally a pretty big conference
and well attended, right?
And it might, you know,
first time speakers might not submit.
Please do.
We do read all of them.
And we do take into account, you know,
what you've done in the past,
but we also do look for new speakers, right?
100%.
So don't let that deter you for sure.
- All right, fantastic.
Well, thanks for taking the time, Peter.
It's been great to chat with you about this.
- Yeah, hey, thanks for having me on.
Really enjoyed it.
Thank you.
- You bet.
- Thanks everyone for joining the live stream.
We will see you on the flip side.
See you next time.
[beeps]